---
layout: post
date: 2009-04
title: Windows Live
---

I’ve just updated <a href="http://download.live.com/?sku=messenger">Windows Live Messenger</a> to version 2009. It also offered to install other Windows Live tools, which I did. And you know what – <a href="http://windowslivewriter.spaces.live.com/">Windows Live Writer</a> rocks! Before I was using Microsoft Office 2007 Word for writing and publishing blogposts and it was doing it job, but now I’ve got a lightweight and really easy-to-use tool to manage my blog. And it’s free so I can install it on my laptop (which has got only Outlook 2007 on it). It can save any post as a draft, edit it later, it’s got live preview tool (which works amazingly fast), you can either work with wysiwyg or with plain html code – and I bet this is the cleanest wysiwyg I’ve ever seen. I really mean it – it generates absolutely clean HTML, and it uses my blog visual theme!

And the configuration process was great as well – I just entered my blog url, username and password, it fetched the theme information and that’s all – I’m writing, previewing and publishing posts!

So, the key features of Windows Live Writer (for me) are:

* it’s kerfuffle-free:

* it works fine with my wordpress blog

* wysiwyg generates really clean code so I don’t have to edit the code manually after I finished writing the blogpost

* it’s got good spellchecking mechanism

* it has a <a href="http://gallery.live.com/liveItemDetail.aspx?li=6b2b5ffe-936a-4cb3-869c-c01de29de176&amp;bt=9">nice twitter plugin</a> that puts a twit with a link to the new blogpost

* it contains most often used photo editing functions – so I don’t need to install anything else on my netbook to post to my blog when I’m travelling.

* it automatically fetches all the categories from the blog – you just need to set them, plus you can add categories if you want

* it can save drafts both to local storage and to the blog – so if I’m writing a huge blogpost, I can proceed editing it when I’m travelling or finish it at home.

* it’s lightweight and really fast

* it’s completely free

* and it’s got plugin architecture so we’ll see more interesting stuff coming!

Good stuff, Live Team, thanks!

P.S. for more information, read <a href="http://windowslivewriter.spaces.live.com/blog/cns!D85741BB5E0BE8AA!1650.entry">this blogpost</a>.