---
layout: post
date: 2009-11
title: PHP loadHTMLFile and a html file without DOCTYPE
---


Just noticed that when you parse an html file with `DOMDocument`’s method `loadHTMLFile` and **there's no DOCTYPE defined in your html, PHP will silently load an empty DOM document**.

Just try saving the following in a test.html file:

	<html><body><div id="toc">wtf</div></body></html>

And then run the following php code:

	$doc = new DOMDocument();
	if ($doc->loadHTMLFile('test.html')) {
		echo 'loadHTMLFile was successfully executed<br>';
		$toc = $doc->getElementById('toc');
		echo 'now trying to var_dump the $toc:<br>';
		var_dump($toc);
	}

You’ll get NULL as a result of the `var_dump` call. As if `getElementById` couldn’t
find the node.

Interesting?

Citing <a href="http://ru.php.net/manual/en/domdocument.loadhtmlfile.php">php.net</a>,
> The function parses the HTML document in the file named filename. **Unlike loading XML, HTML does not have to be well-formed to load**.

Does this imply that DOCTYPE may be omitted? I think so. But then the abovementioned code wouldn’t show NULL as a dump of $toc. Unfortunately, experiment shows that DOCTYPE is required, even a HTML5-ish `<!DOCTYPE html>` will do the job.

But why on earth doesn’t `loadHTMLFile` throw a warning or at least return false as it should according to the documentation? Nobody knows.

**So if you notice that your DOM-based php script acts in a weird way, check if you have a DOCTYPE defined on the HTML document you’re trying to parse.**

Hope this saves someone some time.

P.S. More bugs to come — if you have a HTML file saved in utf-8 codepage with <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_order_mark">BOM</a>, `loadHTMLFile` will throw the
following E_WARNING:

	**Warning**: DOMDocument::loadHTMLFile() [function.DOMDocument-loadHTMLFile]:
	Misplaced DOCTYPE declaration in test-BOM.html, line: 1 in /home/test/www/test-DOMDocument.php on line 3

Remove the BOM and everything works fine. Apparently, `loadHTMLFile` doesn’t know that BOM usually indicates that the document is saved in UTF8/16/32. Weird.

P.P.S. Another issue. Try pointing `loadHTMLFile` to an HTML-document saved in UTF-8 with some international characters (Russian words, in my case). Then get a node with international characters and do `echo $node->nodeValue`. Are you getting corrupted symbols? I was. The whole project is in UTF-8, every single file is saved in UTF-8.

I added

	<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>

to the head section — characters started showing in a correct encoding, but the following
WARNING appeared:

	**Warning**: DOMDocument::loadHTMLFile() [function.DOMDocument-loadHTMLFile]: Input is
	not proper UTF-8, indicate encoding ! in /home/test/www/test-russian.html, line: 65 in
	/home/test/www/test-DOMDocument.php on line 29

And the only way to properly get rid of this warning is to add

	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

to the first line of your html document and it finally worked without any warnings or issues. Awesome. XML header must be used for `load**HTML**File` to run properly. Way too buggy to use.